This is why the administration is so
vulnerable to the criticism that this is
so similar to Iraq because it is so
similar to Iraq.
So whatever happened to America first?
>> Today the United States military
continues to carry out large-scale
combat operations in Iran. It doesn't
feel like a war with Iran was quite what
Donald Trump campaigned on in 2024.
And we're going to end these endless
wars. These endless wars, they never
stop. You ever seen these wars? They go
on for 14 years, 20 years. And my guest
this week thinks it's a big betrayal of
the voters who put him in the White
House.
Kurt Mills, welcome to Interesting
Times. Thanks for having me.
>> Thanks for being here. So I'm going to
do some some stage setting here for
anyone in the audience who doesn't
follow all of the ins and outs of
right-wing foreign policy debates. But
you are in charge of the American
Conservative magazine, which is a
magazine founded by Pat Buchanan, among
other people, in opposition to the
looming Iraq war. And for a long time
the American Conservative was a pretty
lonely voice for foreign policy
restraint, a kind of anti-war,
anti-imperial conservatism.
But throughout the Trump era, it's been
seen as much more influential, maybe
closer to what Trump himself believes.
But here we are, the US is at war, and
it is a war, it's not a whatever, a
large-scale combat operation, right?
We're at war with Iran, we're still
backing Ukraine in its ongoing war with
Russia. We've intervened in Venezuela,
we've intervened in Nigeria, there's a
long list, right? So
whatever this looks like, I would not
describe it as a dovish or restraint
oriented administration. And however you
would describe your faction on the
right, can call it anti-war MAGA, we can
call it America First, whatever label
you want to use seems to be losing. So,
give me a big picture account of why
that's happened. Why, in the broadest
sense, the second Trump administration
turned out to be much more hawkish than
a lot of people expected.
It seems pretty clear to me that the
ultimate deciding factor is the
president's personality.
Um
and own determinations. There are a
number of people in this administration.
There are real cadres
that believe in non-interventionism.
Uh they were put into
uh
personnel
throughout the administration in a much
more pronounced way than in term one.
Uh this generation is younger.
I think very notably at the cabinet
level, but also at the sub-cabinet
level.
There was every indication that when
Trump came in
first day of term two, first month of
term two, that they really wanted to get
the ball rolling on a number of these
endeavors. In fact, they tried before he
was even in power.
Uh the president's special envoy, Steve
Wickoff, if you remember the transition
in mid-January 2025, imposed a ceasefire
on the Israelis that was very unpopular
among the Israeli right. Uh Trump opened
up negotiations and announced it side by
side with Benjamin Netanyahu with Iran
in April of 2025.
Uh Vice President Vance
uh led a caustic
showdown with Zelensky in February of
2025, indicating the administration was
going to take a hardline in getting out
of the war.
Um
even on pet projects of people like
Secretary of State Marco Rubio, there
was every indication that there were
competing factions to try to do
diplomacy in Latin America.
Um
this may well just be stuff that is
written in history books and not
remembered actively,
but the opening thrust of Trump term two
was extremely
in this direction, and I think it's
worth noting.
I also think it had been building for
years.
Uh there was every indication that it
was going to look very different. So
>> So then what So what changed? What was
the You you said it you said
>> President comes down to Trump himself.
>> is impatient.
>> So
>> The president is impatient. The
president does not have the patience for
diplomacy. I think this is
clear. The president does not have the
detail detail-oriented mindset to
overwhelm the various factions in his uh
uh coalition, and the president is
ultimately fundamentally
uh
an underratedly agreeable personality.
And so a major part of President Trump's
boss tweet style of management are
people who want to drive the US into
war. Right? There are Latin America
hawks, there are Iran hawks, there are
even conservative hawks remaining on the
hill and in the military-industrial
complex for Ukraine. And fundamentally,
he has not shown the determination
and courage to tell them no. And I think
you've seen this
uh yes on the right, but you've also
seen it on the world stage.
He likes Keir Starmer. Yeah, I know he
assailed him yesterday with Friedrich
Merz, but generally speaking it's been a
reasonable relationship. He likes
Emmanuel Macron.
Of course, he likes Xi Jinping, and he
likes Vladimir Putin. That's a That's a
status quo uh dynamic if you can't say
no to anybody.
And the status quo is America as an
escalatory interventionist power.
So that's a status quo embodied by not
just forces within his administration,
but by
NATO, the Western alliance, what gets
what gets pejoratively called the
foreign policy blob, right?
>> lot of this is just an open source like
I I I really don't if people are
intimidated by foreign policy. I don't
think it's actually that complex. Uh
Friedrich Merz, the Chancellor of
Germany, flew to DC immediately when the
Iran war started because he sniffed, I
think,
uh
correctly, a grand opportunity for
Europe here or European
internationalists, I should say, which
is support Trump on Iran, lump it. I
don't think they would have chosen this,
but they don't really care, right? I
mean, the Europeans have been, you know,
contra 10 years ago when they were all
in on the Iran diplomacy, they've been
very frosty throughout this process.
They don't care about the Iranians, easy
to dump them.
And try to get Trump back in all in on
NATO and Ukraine. And he said it in the
first 20 seconds of his response
uh in his meeting with Trump, he said,
"Yep, yep, we support the end of this
regime, but I'm really here to talk
about Ukraine."
How much do you think Trump likes being
a hawk, though, too, right? I mean, yes,
so his impatience with diplomacy, its
agreeableness, but
you know, when I look back at his first
term,
you know, it was not it was a first term
that had, in a way, a kind of
establishment Republican foreign policy.
In other ways, he very conspicuously
resisted figures like John Bolton
arguing for escalation against Iran. But
there were various moments, right? The
assassination of General Soleimani, most
notably, where it seemed like Trump took
real
pleasure in using the US military
arsenal and, you know, not being the guy
who put boots on the ground and occupied
countries, but in being a dynamic actor
on the world stage. And that when I look
at sort of the pattern from Venezuela to
Iran, that's sort of what I see.
>> it to the impatience, though. I mean,
like like it it's, you know, there's
disputes, there's negotiations, it's
complex, it's hard. Uh he feels like
he's getting run over by, you know,
foreign actors potentially.
Um you know, he said it yesterday, you
know, Israel didn't make this decision,
if anything, I forced their hand. He's
very competitive and shockish and you
know, macho about that, so to speak. Um
but
I think you're right that he's attracted
fundamentally to the glamour of these
strikes. So, there is this element to
him.
Um but fundamentally uh
until perhaps this month or until
February 28th when we launched the the
war with Iran,
uh Trump has shown
a pretty clear hesitancy to get involved
in these grand ways,
um a lot of the neocons, a lot of the
2000s.
So, what is
the alternative to the kind of
internationalist and interventionist
consensus that you're arguing that he
sort of
accepted. What is the right-wing foreign
policy, the conservative foreign policy
that you were hoping for? Just in broad
strokes.
>> it's important So, you know, the our
magazine was founded by Buchanan
and as you mentioned, and Buchanan in a
lot of ways was
the Tucker Carlson of his age
and also ran for president, which, you
know, may be forthcoming one day from
Mr. Carlson, but
Trump and Buchanan had a very bad
relationship because they both sort of
comically competed over the 2000 Reform
Party nomination, and Trump said
horrible things about Pat.
And I'm only aware of two people that
Trump has ever personally apologized to.
One, his wife Melania Trump after
the leak of Access Hollywood,
and second, Pat.
So, even if you think Trump believes in
nothing and is a nihilist,
which I don't,
but if you believe that, he is aware of
the ideology that he trafficked in in
the 2016 primary and has continued to
the last 10 years. And that is
fundamentally a conservative
anti-globalism. It is
skeptical of our massive empire overseas
that it serves the Americans that it
serves the national interest. It is
skeptical of unending immigration and it
is skeptical of quote free trade. That
is what Trump ran on. That is why the
conservative establishment lost its mind
when he first rose to power.
And
that is when his back has been against
the wall, what he has really reached
for. I mean, remember
someone called Ron DeSantis was once
favored to beat him in the 2024 primary
and he leaned in hard to
the anti-war messaging, leaned in hard
to the trade hawkishness messaging, hard
on the immigration. He reached for it
again and again and again and at the
same time, of course,
you know, a rising young senator called
J.D. Vance endorsed
President Trump early in that primary
when that was not faddish, that was not
considered the safe play.
And then he backed a withdrawal and
skepticism of Ukraine
when that was not at all considered the
conventional wisdom even on the right or
at least within the establishment right.
He made that made those bets and that
was an early alliance between the two of
them
and I think it tells you that this
ideology was always twinned and linked.
Do you think of this ideology as
isolationist?
>> No.
But I mean I I mean I think I I mean
what is isolationist?
>> Well, that's part of my question, right?
Because it seems like
>> a catchall slur, right? I mean I mean
very few Well, there's there's a thread
there's a thread that runs through
Republican foreign policy.
>> as an isolationist? No one ever No one
No Well, people actually called
themselves neocons, right? Like so that
was like a real movement. They called it
they advanced policies that it helped
ruin the country, but like that was an
actual ideology. I think I think
>> Although by the time by the time it
became controversial, right? When they
started messing things up.
>> in
>> in the early 2000s, you had lots of
neoconservatives who would say, "Well,
what is a neoconservative anyway,
right?" It was I guess what I'm getting
at is this. There's a
strand of Republican foreign policy that
is extremely hawkish, aggressive, and
interventionist.
>> And sometimes for the sake of democracy,
sometimes just on general
>> facto on general on general
>> You see it it's on an autopilot on
Capitol Hill. It's I mean it's it's the
the the
the older generation just marinating and
it's it's it's the it's the central
nervous system.
>> But there is a there's also a thread,
a strong thread that runs through actual
Republican presidents from Dwight
Eisenhower through Richard Nixon and to
some extent Ronald Reagan that is
internationalist
but skeptical of military intervention.
But then there's also a fuller kind of
anti-imperial, anti-war right that says,
"No, we need to sort of dismantle bases,
bring troops home, and so on." And I I'm
I'm curious where in that divide you
sit. Like, do you think that Eisenhower,
Nixon, and Reagan offer
a valuable tradition, or do you think
they were too imperial themselves?
>> the magazine represents
a range, but I'm happy to answer for
myself. For yourself.
>> Okay. I And it's also but it's also
relevant to
to Vance, to Trump, to these figures.
Like,
what are they trying to build? Are they
trying to sort of change the way the
American empire works, or are they
trying to retreat and dismantle it? For
myself, I am far more to uh
the latter. I I think basically
the critics of where America went,
particularly post-World War II,
lost the battle,
but they were right.
And I don't think this is actually an
ancient battle because the empire is
still going on, and America is
increasingly stretched thin in my
assessment, and I think their arguments
are still alive and well and relevant
going into the 21st century. So,
I prefer
Nixon's foreign policy to Reagan's.
I prefer Eisenhower's foreign policy to
the John Birch Society.
Uh but I prefer Robert Taft to
Eisenhower.
Uh that's that's where I come from. Uh
Reagan, I think I'll
I think is
similar uh enough uh to Obama on the
left which is it's a sort of deity
figure where it just doesn't really
behoove one to mess with him.
But I think there we drew the wrong
lessons from the Reagan years. And I
think Reagan is fundamentally an
overrated conservative figure and
overrated president and a potentially in
many ways damaging one. And do you
when you talk about then
the shift that you saw happening
on the younger right in appointees to
the Trump administration,
do you think that
a lot of those people agreed with you or
do you think that they saw themselves
more as saying, "We're still
internationalists, but we're in
the Nixon school."
Um Yeah, yeah. I mean, I think the
people who were in the government are
probably
uh functionally
uh closer to the Nixon-Eisenhower
school, which I still think would be a
vast improvement over the default mode
of where we have been in the '90s,
2000s, 2010s. Okay. Do you think there's
actual public support for
any kind of sort of anti-imperialist,
anti-war turn?
>> Absolutely. I think but I think foreign
policy is complex.
I think it needs leadership. I think it
would need a president to explain why we
are doing this to the American people,
but I think the people who lose their
minds when
uh the president
pursues a new type of foreign policy,
whether this be Donald Trump or even
Barack Obama,
it is a elite-driven game. It is a DC in
New York thing. That is who's actually
opposing it most vociferously. It is not
protests in the streets to keep our
bases in Bahrain. It is not protests in
the streets to make sure that we bore
out bagged Nicolas Maduro.
It is a DC New York intelligentsia thing
fundamentally. Okay, let me make a
counter argument and see what you think.
If you look at polling on
the Iran war so far and again we're you
know, four or five days in and obviously
it can change dramatically, but right
now initially
overwhelming numbers of Republican
voters support the war. It's not popular
nationally, but then Donald Trump
himself is not popular nationally, but
within the Republican coalition, there's
plenty of support for the war in polls.
Doesn't seem just elite driven. I think
if you looked at polls
for the Venezuelan operation, you would
probably see something
similar. And then over time in polling,
I think if you do it on the basis of
philosophy,
right?
You find a lot of sort of default
hawkishness among Republican
conservative and right-wing voters.
And there's people who look at
the kind of anti-war right or the war
skeptical right that you represent, but
that's also associated with really
prominent figures like Tucker Carlson
who you already mentioned,
Steve Bannon, all the way now through
figures like Megan Kelly and others.
And people say, "Well, that's actually
the elite driven phenomenon. That's you
know, a group of people who found a way
this is an attention economy to monetize
a lot of people who are really intensely
focused on foreign policy or you know,
sometimes really hostile to Israel.
We'll talk more about Israel in a
minute, right? But that ultimately
Bannon, Carlson, others, they speak for
a really sort of hyper engaged 10% of
the Republican coalition, but most
people are just hawks on the right. And
if you say we're going to go to war and
kick some ass in the Middle East, yes,
if it goes really badly, people will
turn against it, but there's there isn't
like a philosophical support for
restraint. What do you make of that
argument?
>> Most people Most voters are deferential
to their party and their politicians.
I I So, I mean, I I just think the I
think the counterfactual to your
counterfactual needs to be interrogated.
What if President Trump had signed an
Iran deal?
I think overwhelming numbers of
Republicans would have supported that.
What if President Trump had opened up
business dealings with Nicolas Maduro,
like he's doing right now with Delcy
Rodríguez, or trying to?
Think that would have been
uncontroversial in the population. Uh
What if President Trump had uh pulled
out of Ukraine and Ukraine hadn't
collapsed and there was an enduring deal
where an armistice freeze the battle
lines? I think that would have been very
popular on the right, as well.
So,
you see a level of partisanship in this
country that is extreme. You see a level
of trust on the right in President
Trump, which is notable, but I'm not
sure entirely unique. I think, you know,
the Democratic standard-bearer, Biden,
was a weird president. I think I I young
>> We can agree on that.
>> we stipulated that. I think Barack
Obama, if he was president today, would
have similar dynamics on the left. I
think that was frustrating
uh for
liberals that were Meaning Meaning that
the left was notionally anti-war, but
when Obama
did things, they supported it.
>> Trump have similarities, right? Or the
phenomena have similarities. There There
was a lot of left-wing uh intellectual
ennui with Obama in the mid-2010s, I'm
sure you recall. And it didn't really
show up in the polls.
Okay? So, I think Trump is a big deal. I
think whoever leads these parties are
big deals. I think presidents are big
deals.
But I don't really see that as evidence
as uh for hawkishness, actually. I see
that as evidence for trusting the
president or trusting who leads the
party or trusting your party. And I will
say this, I I'm not a big fan of Bush
certainly, and but also of Obama who I
think were both failed presidents, they
both tried to marshal support in fairly
traditional ways, which is this is what
I believe, I'm going to do this, I'm
going to spend political capital on it.
Iraq, Bush did that. Obama did it for
mediocre health care reform.
What um
wouldn't you at least agree though
that there is a strong generational
division?
>> Oh, it's here. I mean, where older older
conservatives and Republicans, and
again, I think you can see this in
opinion polls,
have a stronger hawkish default.
Going back in part to, you know, some of
the veneration of Ronald Reagan you
talked about, but again, I think just
connected in a kind of profound way to
how
conservatives, older conservatives think
about their country, right? That, you
know, we are we we're the country that
won the Cold War, um and if you're a
patriotic American, you should expect us
to be able to do good things abroad.
That that seems like a still a a
powerful force in public opinion that
can't be just reduced to
Trump says it, therefore people go
along.
>> the story ultimately is an elite one cuz
I'm still going to focus on the
counterfactual. Let's say Trump did a
deal with Vladimir Putin. Let's say you
say Trump did a deal with the Iranians.
He said, "I solved Biden's war. I did a
better Iran deal than Obama."
Yeah, there might have been some people
in the country, some right-wing radio
shows who like, you know, "The mullahs
are still up to stuff. We got to do this
or do that." But I don't think there
would be revolt from the older clientele
of the party if Trump had chosen
diplomacy. Uh versus Trump is choosing
war, and there is revolt.
Is there is Well, wait. Is there revolt?
>> I think I think you're going to see.
It's I think it's going to be pretty
bad. Okay. Yeah. I mean, it depends on I
mean, it stipulates how long this war
goes. Trump may still off-ramp. Trump
should off ramp, but like I'm arguing
succinctly
that it actually would have been
politically more savvy for him to do the
diplomacy. And the only real explain
explanatory variable in my view is the
elite story. That's who was losing their
mind at diplomacy.
>> What about the explanatory variable of
non-American actors?
>> Oh, I think that's huge, too. I was just
being maybe diplomatic. Well, but but
not So,
I don't mean our allies. We'll talk
about our allies in a moment.
>> your point. I mean I mean our
adversaries, right? So, when I look at
what's happened with Russia and Ukraine,
right? It seems to me that the
administration made a big diplomatic
push. They twisted the Ukrainian
government's arm, as you mentioned, when
you know, in the famous Oval Office
meeting and elsewhere, to get them to be
more open to a peace deal.
And for various reasons, Vladimir Putin
has decided that it's in his interests
to let the war go on. And that has left
the White House still You know, they're
still negotiating, right?
>> hawkish summary. I mean, I I I think I
think they could have come to a deal uh
that would have been attractive enough
for Putin to not continue the war. But
that's life. I mean, like you have to
offer him a deal that makes it more
attractive than the status quo.
Right, but to take the extreme example,
if
Trump made a deal with Putin and 6 weeks
later
the Russian army took Kyiv and occupied,
you know, 2/3 of Ukraine, the public
would turn against that, don't you
think?
>> I think the driving force on on why they
would turn against it would be hysteria
driven from the media and and by foreign
policy elites. So, I'll stipulate to
that. And I I like look, I
But I don't think I don't think it was
really on offer, though. I mean, we can
debate Ukraine all day, but I I I think
Let's just let's let's let's narrow the
zone of what was actually discussed.
Like there wasn't discussion of
giving them Kyiv. There were were Kyiv.
There was there was discussions of
giving them these four oblasts. There
was discussions of security. There are
discussions of security guarantees.
These are the things that are actually
being talked about in all these various
negotiations.
If Trump did let's say the 28-point
plan, which critics say is a Russian
plan
from 2025, late 2025. I think
if that was
initiated I think that the Ukrainians
and the Europeans would complain and
liberals in the United States would
complain, but that Ukraine would not
collapse, that there would be a deal,
and that that would solve the conflict
for the short to medium term. Okay.
Yeah, and I and I and I think the public
would not revolt. Right. I guess I just
>> I think the Afghanistan scenario is what
you raised, basically. Which is if the
administration had incompetently allowed
Ukraine to collapse ala Afghanistan,
yes, I do think I do think Trump would
have been blamed, but I also think the
big story there is media and foreign
policy elites hammering that issue and
making it, you know, everything on the
airwaves.
I guess that was the story. That was the
Fox News story in Afghanistan. I guess
this is a point where we somewhat
disagree in the sense that I supported
the withdrawal from Afghanistan. I wrote
columns in favor of it. I defended Biden
at the time against his critics. At the
same time, at the same time, observing
the dynamics of that, how it affected
perceptions of the Biden presidency the
way, you know, and obviously that
reflected the way it was handled as well
as the policy itself. It just gave me a
sense that
there are limits to how sort of
how anti-imperial and
withdrawal-oriented American president
can be because a lot of Americans are
just bought in
and sometimes I think for good reason,
sometimes for bad reasons, to
our a sort of broadly ambitious role in
the world. And that and certainly that
things that appear as national
humiliation, it doesn't take Fox News
whipping them up for that to cut into
presidential support.
>> if I think if Abby Gate hadn't happened,
I think if the images in the airport had
been less chaotic, I think that would
have gone a long way. Okay. Well, let's
All right, let's talk about
as you say, let's stipulate that
disagreement.
>> Okay. And talk more about what you see
as
the other actors shaping US foreign
policy. So,
you argue that
restrained-oriented anti-imperial
foreign policy could be popular with the
right leaders.
We've both been writing about these
issues for a long time.
It has not found the right leaders, even
in the form of Donald Trump,
you know, a partial Buchananite.
What What is the obstacle?
What is the core obstacle to
um elites embracing this kind of foreign
policy?
These are kind of different questions.
Yes. Okay.
>> Right. Yeah. I mean I mean I mean the
fundamental obstacle is a president who
believes in it and advances it and and
and and goes for it. I mean I mean I
would say the same thing we we went we
went into ancient history, uh you know,
the early 20th century. Uh World War II
was not popular getting into it before
it was. And FDR
cleverly marshaled public support and
world events to get us into that war.
And now that's remembered as this
sterling success of
American power. Uh but it wasn't popular
It was extremely unpopular actually in
the late '30s and he basically had to
pledge to not get us into the war when
he ran for re-election in 1940. And so,
I think that the idea that Americans
have
extremely strong convictions on any of
this stuff is not true, but I also think
that is an argument against their
extremely strong convictions for
hawkishness. And you mentioned uh
the the Bannon, Carlson, Kelly, right,
whatever you want to call it.
And you know, I cuz I see this line of
critique. But I also think it's very
notable that the highest information
members of the party and the most
engaged voters cuz I think you you
picked up on something smart. Carlson
I've known a while and I think he would
be doing this regardless. Bannon pretty
much the same. But if there wasn't a
market for what they were saying, they
wouldn't be doing this probably. You
know,
10 years ago, I was always told on like
television that foreign policy
just didn't it didn't it didn't track.
Like we we they could barely get me on
TV. They could barely get people on TV
to talk about it. You know, even when
Carlson had me on it was like you know,
it was really just kind of almost a
favor.
Um that's not the way it is anymore.
People are getting madder and madder and
more engaged on this subject
organically.
But I would say that the way that
they're getting madder and more engaged
centers around having one very specific
villain. Right? Like a primary focus of
Carlson especially, but others as well,
right? Is Israeli policy, Israeli
influence on on the United States. It's
true. It's true. Okay. So
>> It's just true.
>> It's just true. Good. All right. So what
tell me about Israeli influence on US
foreign policy? Israel's foundation was
always twinned with the United States. I
mean this this this this happened in the
1948 election. Truman uh tilted the
scales and helped you know, it helped
him win the election in 1948. But
fundamentally since the 90s, since the
assassination
of Yitzhak Rabin, Israeli politics has
gone in a different direction and it has
been highly twinned with
particularly center-right intellectuals
and elites in the United States with a
certain perspective. And it is a
perspective that says that Israel can
only be secure
by thrashing everybody in the
neighborhood and breaking them into bits
and so they're weak. It is a siege
mentality. It is a garrison state.
And of course,
it is very linked to the US where, you
know, I I believe the numbers are 45% of
Jews live in Israel, 45% of Jews live in
the United States, 10% live elsewhere.
Could be stipulated roughly correct.
And of course, when the other half of
the world's Jewish population is here,
and this highly emotional issue,
there is an attempt to say any criticism
of Israel is ipso facto anti-Semitic.
I think it is
Well, number one,
it is the kind of argument that the
right is supposed to be against, which
is woke political correctness.
It's also just fundamentally untrue.
And I think it's a silly
and uh
dulling thought technology. Okay, but
five five years ago, right?
I would say it was fair to say that that
kind of critique
had a fair amount of purchase in
American politics. That people The
critique that says
uh if you criticize Israel too strongly,
you're anti-Semitic. I don't think it
has any substantial purchase
right now. I think the Democratic
political coalition has been fractured
repeatedly, right? In the last few years
by debates that are
profoundly about Israel and Israeli
policy.
Um And as we were just saying
>> happening to the right.
>> And as we were just saying, some of the
most influential voices on the right in
terms of sort of interest and engagement
are intensely critical of Israel. So, it
seems to me that like one, that taboo is
gone
to a large degree. If it's gone, then
let's actually be substantive. What What
What What is
It can't just be that I think you're
brushing aside You're brushing aside the
fear that Israel still engenders,
especially among the establishment, and
you know this. You know that people feel
that their careers will be destroyed if
they're at all critical of Israel. And
that is still a controlling mechanism
>> where?
I mean like in in in
people in media and politics. People in
media and politics?
>> media and politics and and to an extent
corporate America.
And
but since we're talking about foreign
policy, just focus just focus on foreign
policy. Is that
then an actual driver of US policy
making?
>> Sure. I'm trying I'm trying Yeah, yeah,
yeah. Yeah, yeah, absolutely. So you
would you would say that a big reason
that a lot of Republican elites Yeah.
take a much more hawkish line in the
Middle East towards Iran especially
than you would favor or than you think
most of their voters would favor
is not because they're sincere Iran
hawks but because they're afraid of
having their careers destroyed?
>> I think it's a mix. I think particularly
of older, as we mentioned that this age
variable is huge. I think older
people are more inclined to actually
believe it.
And then additionally, I think the clear
separation
between the interests of the United
States and Israel wasn't as obvious in
generations past. I think
there was a view especially in the Bush
administration that you know, the world
was Fukuyamaist. And so yes, this was
the Israeli position, but if we knock
over all these strong Muslim states
Jeffersonian democracy will actually
blossom. And like look, I understand you
can say that different elites in the
Bush administration fundamentally said
this.
We're just disagreed on this or you
know, Bolton wanted to go in for this
reason. It's different than Paul
Wolfowitz, right? Okay, fine. But
fundamentally the
the marinade was the only acceptable
style of government and organization in
society is Western liberal democracy.
And other societies
that organize themselves in a separate
form, are fundamentally illegitimate.
And I think because because Israel
styles itself as a quote Western liberal
democracy, I'm not sure it's Western,
liberal, or democracy at this point.
Uh
they are naturally able to latch on to
that cast of mind. That cast of mind is
uh discredited among younger people
because this is a heavily indebted
society and Americans don't believe in
the future, broadly speaking, anymore.
Uh but for older Americans,
uh it is a more attractive mode of
argument. But do you think See, I guess
I just don't think that's where the
pro-Iran war right is right now. I I
agree that that was a big part of the
story of where the right was in the Bush
era. Not Not universally, but a sense
that I'm not so sure we're out of the
Bush era. To me, I look at the Trump era
and I look at
not so much even the people who always
supported war with Iran, like Lindsey
Graham, right? But people who have sort
of oscillated back and forth between
being anti-war, pro-war, who are shaped,
I think, by loyalty to Trump in the ways
you describe,
I think for a lot of those people the
story they tell themselves now is
we don't have any fond illusions about
democracy and the end of history. We
think the world is a tough place. We
think there's a bunch of powers,
Russia, China, Iran, most notably, are
hostile to American interests. We think
there's a set of powers in the Middle
East
that are friendly to American interests,
including Israel, also including Saudi
Arabia, which has also played a
substantial role, I think, in
pushing for a more hawkish foreign
policy from Trump in a way that gets
less attention from um Tucker, Bannon.
No one is out there
telling a podcast host, "You can't
criticize Saudi Arabia, right, in the
American media. Right.
>> Right. But and yet there's much more
criticism of Israel in the American
media than Saudi Arabia.
>> Israel is much more enmeshed in in US
society than Saudi Arabia is. I mean but
is Israel more enmeshed in the
decision-making patterns of US foreign
policy than Saudi Arabia over the last
25 to 50 years? Are I I feel like
there's a I think there's a fundamental
underestimation of
the s-
the place of Saudi Arabia from
the anti-war right.
I think there's a bunch of Americans who
support
working with
Arab states and Israel to fight Iran for
what they think of as tough-minded
realist reasons, not just g-
>> Americans or elites?
I think Americans who like Trump and
currently say they support this war.
>> yeah, he advances yeah, he advances that
that he has picked a side pretty clearly
at this moment.
Um But but even but even
Well, no, no, well, well,
yeah, no, I want to I want to and by
talking about the future, but
>> be likely, yeah, but I mean seriously, I
mean like I mean the guy flips
constantly.
Oh, yeah. No, no, he could he could
absolutely flip again. But even in terms
of foreign policy elites,
when I look around the Republican Party,
I just it just seems to me that there's
yeah, there's a lot of people who are
like Israel's tough, you know, Saudis
are allies. We're we're you know, we're
weakening an enemy and strengthening an
ally and that's
>> I think this is a I think this is a
supine
ideology and I think it it is it has
gotten
the essential incentive structure is
this.
You can discard the things that are
unpopular. So, the 2000s, the naive
democracy building, right?
Ah, you know, it's enough on Iraq, we're
not going to do that again, right? The
essential lesson of the Iraq war is
don't invade Iraq, right?
But everything else that has power
uh
Israeli influence on the United States,
the large military, uh, conservative
institutions that are still bought in on
this.
Uh, you keep that and you just cook up
something new, slightly different, and
sell it as fundamentally a rejection of
the 2000s. It's not a rejection of the
2000s. This is why the administration is
so vulnerable to the criticism that this
is so similar to Iraq because it is so
similar to Iraq. I don't think it is a
full rejection of the 2000s, but I think
the people who are supportive of the war
Well, again, are people or or elites?
Are
people
>> Including elites, I Well, I think he's
very different. I mean, look, uh, I
think George W. Bush, who was a worse
president to this point anyways than
than Donald Trump. He's the worst
president by far in American history, in
my opinion.
He lost two wars and he crashed the
economy. And when he left in January of
2009, 22% low 20s of Americans supported
him. What does that tell you? Half of
Republicans supported him even as he was
leaving the
the White House. I think that matters. I
think that will fundamentally be true no
matter what Trump does, but I think it's
only so interesting.
>> Right. Now, I'm just trying to get at
like what are the actual
conduits of forces that are shaping
foreign policy right now. And it just
seems like you
you're telling a story where
Israel in particular exerts this kind of
influence over people
who don't fully agree with Israeli
policy but are afraid to argue with it
and I
>> argument. It's not It's not the
not the fault of
>> Or or are or are in the thrall of like,
yeah, early 2000s ideas about the spread
of democracy. Let's Just just to be very
concrete, like how much power do you
think Benjamin Netanyahu is exerting
over US foreign policy right now?
A disgusting amount.
I mean, I mean, this has been going on
for a while. I mean, the Benjamin
Netanyahu, when he spoke to Congress
under, I believe, Speaker Boehner, he
was greeted more warmly by the
legislature than the president of the
United States was at the time. So, the
Republicans took over Congress in in
2014 and he gave an address and it was
like he was the president. I think a lot
of Republican congressmen want Netanyahu
to be be the president, frankly. Like if
I mean it it's it's it's obvious for
everyone to see,
uh but it just is fundamentally a
again, an elite thing. Netanyahu's not
that popular in the United States.
No, but among Republican
Lawmakers and elites, he is. But the
lawmakers and elites reflect
Sort of. the reflect the reflect the
broad
the broad opinion I mean no, you you
know you know
low information. Okay, but you know
Republicans. You know American
Republicans and you know that a default
support for Israel that is rooted not in
fear of political persecution by
Zionists but by some combination of
historical affinities, religious
affinities, and and hostility to the
Islamic Republic of Iran which has done
a lot of bad things to Americans over
the years. Like that's a real core part
of Republican sentiment. It may be
ebbing among the younger generations but
But it but it is not in a majoritarian
perspective in the country. I mean
if that was true, Trump would never have
been the Republican nominee. Right. I'm
just trying to stay with Israel because
it seems so central to
the actual It is.
>> inside the right critique. But Trump
Trump Trump ran for Trump ran for
president as more of a dove than other
Republicans but as throughout his first
term he also constantly boasted about
being the best friend that Israel has
ever had. He was moving the embassy. He
was doing all kinds of things and again
He's in bed with them. But He accepted
large uh Israel-adjacent financing for
his campaign.
And uh you mentioned the Gulf before.
The the the family is obviously in
business in the Gulf and the Gulf was
far more of a driver of Hawkish foreign
policy in the first term. Let's pull up.
I'm trying to understand in certain ways
just the future of the right and where
right-wing foreign policy goes from
here, right? And so it makes a big
difference whether we understand
Israeli influence
on Republican foreign policy as a
primarily about the opinions of
conservative voters who are pro-Israel
for a range of reasons,
two, the opinions of elites
who are pro-Israel for a different set
of reasons, some mixture of sincerity
and fear, you're arguing, versus three,
this a narrative where Well, no, it's
about Trump's
business deals and deal-making in the
Middle East, right? Those are three
quite different perspectives on
>> They can all be true. They can all be
part of the story. I don't understand
the the contradiction. Well, I'm just
curious what we think is sort of the
defining the defining force here in as
we as we as we
>> to Israel. He's not saying no to Israel.
But that this will not stop unless he
says no to Israel. Right. But And he's
not That is that is the that is the
actual
>> saying no to Israel because he is
fundamentally too agreeable or because
he's fundamentally corrupted?
>> agreeable.
He is
too close to them politically.
And uh I think yeah, I think he's
somewhat afraid of them.
Why is he afraid of them?
I think they're an intimidating society.
And I think people are afraid of Mossad.
I think people are afraid of Israeli
influence in foreign policy. They are
afraid what
uh it can do to people's careers. I
think this taboo, as you were
mentioning, is breaking, but I think it
has a lot of explanatory power. For
Trump? Sure.
Sure.
Yeah, I mean You think You think Trump
Are you You think he's afraid of Israel
as a force that could that could break
him, that could attack him and call him
an anti-Semite, or as a force that could
like expose dark secrets about him?
Yeah, I mean, I think the Epstein story
is is is somewhat relevant. I don't I
don't know. We don't know cuz the
government's not being transparent, but
I think he was in alliance fundamentally
from the beginning because of campaign
donations
and the structure of conservative
foreign policy elites with the Israeli
hardline.
And the Israeli hardline is yeah, they
want regime change. They also want state
collapse in Iran. They don't really want
Iran to exist anywhere close to its
current form.
Right. I guess I've just my sense is
just that
these things
from watching Republican foreign policy
in this administration and previously
that these things are overdetermined and
that it ends up being easy for
the anti-war side to say, well, the you
know, it's just Israel and if we fix
America's relationship to Israel.
>> I think it's a huge deal. I mean, do you
think this would be happening without
Israel?
I don't think it would be happening
without Israel in the in the sense that
like if an entirely different Middle
East existed, the world would be
entirely different. But I can certainly
tell a very straightforward story where
the US relationship to Saudi Arabia,
Cold War issues, the Iranian revolution,
a lot of different things lead to a
long-standing US rivalry with Iran
without Israel being part of that story.
Yes, I can certainly tell that story.
I think that I think that Israel matters
profoundly to this in part for reasons
related to what actual Republican voters
believe, which is something that I think
you think is more I'm not arguing
that we're going to be in a naturally
good relationship with the Islamic
Republic of Iran. I think we're a long
way from that happening if the Islamic
Republic of Iran exists in the year.
Uh
I think
the story though is why is this a
crisis? Why do we have to do this now?
Why do countries have to be evacuated of
US citizens? Why does
oil prices have to go up potentially
$100 a barrel? Why is the Why is the
administration seemingly
uh more interested in
being defiant on this issue than its
central issue, immigration? I mean, say
what you will, and I I I don't want to
debate Minnesota, but the administration
caved on that. And they may cave because
it's too much on this, but they are
really putting their back into this one
in a way they didn't do on their central
issue.
Yes, but part of that is that
presidents in second terms can find
foreign policy crises
easier to sort of feel like they have
freedom of movement in than domestic
policy, right?
>> And Trump himself is But he had a lot of
freedom of movement on the immigration.
I mean, like I mean, what what what
exactly The Congress isn't really
stopping him. Congress isn't stopping
him, but I think that
courts and public opinion are, from his
perspective, actually more difficult
adversaries than
foreign dictators seem to be, especially
in the aftermath of Venezuela, which
again, to me, has
more explanatory power.
>> I think that has a lot of explanatory
I'm not I'm not I'm not discounting that
at all. I think I think he has become
uh
besotted with these quote quick actions.
So, uh the assassination of Soleimani,
the 12-day war, uh the uh abduction of
Nicolas Maduro. No, I think that was a
huge story and why he thought, "Okay,
there's all this pressure on me. Uh
a major part of my coalition is losing
its mind about Iran.
Uh you know, we got to do everything the
Israeli hardline wants, but maybe it
won't be so bad, right?" And then,
additionally, uh there are a number of
smart conservatives that are, I think,
basically
doing the anti-anti what we're what
we're uh uh
putting forward. They're not putting
forward 2002-2003 neoconservatism, but
and I think I sense it in the tone of
your voice a little bit. Maybe my my my
view is overheated. Maybe it's too much.
Maybe I drew too many lessons from the
2000s.
And
I don't know. This looks pretty bad.
Yeah, so let's say it's pretty bad.
Um
just to take your your own language. You
get state collapse in Iran.
We don't make any kind of, you know,
Venezuelan style style deal.
I don't think the US stays at war with
Iran for 6 months or puts 50,000 troops
in.
>> I don't know. I don't know.
The government is I mean it's very
tellingly moved the Overton window on
that immediately. Now troops are
possible. Now forever wars now forever
wars are sneer quoted.
>> But let me I'll just give you a scenario
where
we don't do that, but it is perceived in
6 months that this was a failure and
Iran is a kind of festering landscape.
There's civil there's some kind of civil
war inside Iran. Maybe we are backing
Kurdish militias.
We've stopped bombing. There is a more
hardline government in power in Tehran
that can't control its provinces, let's
say. Just just as a scenario that is not
that is not maybe the worst case, but is
quite bad and people agree this policy
has gone badly. What does that do to
Republican politics and conservative
politics?
In In going going into 2027 2028 and
successors to Donald Trump.
Yeah. I think there are probably two
main views on
where the party and where the movement
can go and I think this has been true
throughout the Trump era.
There is view number one.
And it is that it is a cult.
And it is just Trump as a celebrity.
And once you get rid of Trump once he's
off the scene
then it can go back to business as usual
ala 2013 2014 2015 status quo ante.
The other view, and these are obviously
extremes and so I think there's there's
truth in both perspectives.
The other view is that the ideology
really does matter.
And additionally
uh
the fact that the reigning ideology
keeps failing will create a more and
more radicalized polity that is actually
going to that that Trump will look in
some ways on
like a moderate, right?
And like we've we've we've kind of like
talked about it before. It's like this
this is the sort of idea of like
I would say President Tucker Carlson,
something like that, right? Like this is
the real thing this time. That Trump
will be remembered as this like
you know, wobbly, you know, you know,
interregnum before you know, we get real
right-wing policy or something like
that. I think obviously both of these
things are kind of extreme as you just
said, but I'm far more towards that. And
I think uh because why don't I support
the Iran war? Because it doesn't work.
And I think when it doesn't work, uh it
is actually going to be accelerationist.
Do you think Republicans, conservatives
turn on Trump explicitly in that
scenario, the way to some degree they
turned
on Bush? I was just looking at Tucker's,
you know, his post-Iran episode, right?
And it had a title like Israel's war on
Iran. He didn't call it Trump's war on
Iran, right? Is there a like and and you
see a lot of that? Is there a damn to
break?
>> for the record, I think they're equally
culpable. I just want to be absolutely
clear. I think Israel and that dynamic
set the table, but I think President
Trump is responsible. I think it's
50/50.
>> okay, 50% blame. So,
Trump
do do do we get to a point where
conservatives and Republicans agree with
that, where anyone from Tucker to Megyn
Kelly to Bannon and beyond is saying not
not, you know, the neocons have failed,
but Trump has failed.
>> sets the tone. So, it all depends what
the economy looks like. Let's say we
keep the same economy roughly. We're
keeping the money machine going on.
We're going into debt, you know, you
know, we We been doing the same thing
more or less since 2009. I think you
will see the administration, if this war
goes on for a while or if we go into
something that's, you know, Iran looks
like a disaster, you know, like what you
described, say in the autumn,
I think you will see an administration
that will be in the low 30s, maybe even
the high 20s
of approval rating.
So, today I think Trump is in the high
30s. So, I'm I'm
Yeah.
>> postulating
a five to seven-point knock on his
approval rating.
I think you will see them, this is just
projection, I think you will see them in
this scenario, if Trump hasn't cut bait,
which I think he very still very might
well might,
uh they will
>> just to pause, even if he cuts bait, if
Iran is a disaster area,
the policy is still Depends what that
depends what that looks like. I mean,
are they I mean, is the IRGC government
lobbing missiles and Shahed drones at
the Gulf still? I mean, it's an extent
that it
it would imply that we can't get out at
that point, right? And we'd have to get
back into defend our assets and defend
commerce and air traffic, etc., etc. So,
I I don't I think I think this this this
projection is hard to do, but I think
what you're asking is like, what does it
look like if this actually takes a chunk
out of his approval rating and how does
the infra-right dynamics go from there?
I think you will see an administration
that you're already seeing elements of
this,
leaning, you know, Vance and Rubio get
all the attention, but like
aesthetically and spiritually, this is
very Hexathian, right? Which is just
like it's screaming at the media, uh
it's uh absolute fetishization of
combatants and the troops. It's leaning
into the most loyal Republicans, which
are often religious Republicans. I mean,
some of the reporting and the language
out of the Pentagon on why we're doing
this is pretty astonishing.
Um I think you will see the White House
do that.
Uh I think you will not see them
denounce Trump. Uh Outside outside
critics, you mean, right? On the right.
Yeah, I mean, like look,
they didn't The Democrats never
denounced Biden until they cooed him,
right? So, like I think this is the
equal and opposite on on the Republican
side. Um but I think you will see uh and
this will be criticized. You will see uh
would-be successors and you will see the
right-wing dialogue uh be
all but explicitly condemnatory of
Trump. Not him. And then you know,
there's there is the perspective that
like this is uh cowardice, right? Like
you know,
Tucker's attacked. Just denounce Trump,
etc., etc. Why won't you? Um Well,
because I think it's it's it's not
actually
uh
the the the zone of argument that will
make the most impact. And so, I think
you will see the primary debate be
pretty vicious and openly condemnatory
of the policy, maybe not the person.
>> And so, what happens to the Vice
President, J.D. Vance, in that scenario?
Vance is someone who is very explicitly,
as we've said earlier in this
conversation, associated with some kind
of politics of
restraint. Yeah. He is someone who is
friends with Tucker Carlson, is sort of
broadly
associated with anti-interventionist
populism. You're telling a story where
there's a big breakdown and attack on
the administration from the anti-war
right. What happens to Vance? Well,
I think number one, the the biggest
macro question is whether or not Rubio
is going to run against Vance. Would be
my my number one. And I think it's a
weird zone where Rubio actually profits
politically from the administration
failing.
So, I think if the 2028 uh primary race
is not attractive, he'll just pass. And
uh
in 2032, he'll be remembered as this
grand man of state representing a
Republican superstate, uh Latino, uh you
know,
yeah, he was for the Iran stuff, but it
wasn't his thing. Venezuela and Latin
America is his thing. You could you
could see him, you know, like people
thought Condi Rice could run, right?
Like it it's just you know
she had more going on than just that. It
wasn't Dick Cheney running. And I think
that could be very attractive to Rubio
because the reality is
um is Rubio being VP with Vance all that
attractive, right? I mean, if they win,
he has to wait eight more years to run
in 2036. If they lose, I mean,
not since FDR has a losing vice
president
uh on the on the ticket become the
president. So, it's it's not it's not
great. Um so, I think that's the the
first open question cuz you could
imagine a Vance-Rubio duel, right? And
then I think this stuff actually becomes
extremely salient because Vance's clear
allies are the interventionists.
>> Right, but Vance Rubio's clearly the
establishment.
>> But Vance can't make an argument that
his own administration's policies have
failed.
>> I think he might have to.
I I I want to be clear on So, what was
the what was the central mistake that
Kamala Harris made among many?
Uh but the central one was I think the
no daylight policy with Biden.
I think Vance is going to have to
innovate beyond that if he wants to be
the president. And is there anyone
besides Tucker who you imagine as a
standard-bearer for a right-wing
insurgent campaign?
>> yeah, is there going to be a right-wing
insurgent campaign uh
challenge to Vance? So, Vance is So,
we're talking about flanks basically
here, right? So, there's the
establishment flank cuz you got
DeSantis, Haley, Cruz. Uh those are
people who are going to try to flank
Vance from like, you know, it's just a
call we can go back.
>> but if but if the Iraq war sorry, big
Freudian slip right there. Yeah, yeah,
yeah. Everyone who's kind of for the war
is doing it for the
>> This is where This is where we end with
that with the Freudian slip. If the Iran
war is seen as a failure, it seems to me
that the action in the party is not Ron
DeSantis running against running running
I I'm I'm not saying what I'm not saying
what
the party party elites think. I'm just
saying the action is
who becomes the voice of
you know, a kind of this failed
narrative. You're saying one, it could
be Vance himself.
>> It's the Sanders lane, right? Like I
mean that's what that's what Sanders did
in 2016. He was implicitly critical of
of the incumbent Democratic president.
>> Right. But it's
it seems to me incredibly difficult for
Vance to do it. Yeah, I agree.
>> So then it's it's Tucker. Is there
anyone else?
>> Well, yes. I think I think that
it depends how many of them run, but I
think there's clearly four
potential anti-interventionist critics
of Vance who could run.
It is Carlson.
It is Bannon. It is Marjorie Taylor
Greene. It is Thomas Massie.
Those were the four I would I would I
flag. I struggle to imagine any of those
four
winning a one-on-one race, but I but it
may be the against Vance against Vance.
My imagination may not be right.
>> Um I mean I I think I think it's very
clear that Vance will probably have at
least one competitor within his own
administration. So if it's not Rubio,
Hegseth,
Kristi Noem,
I think I've been talked to
Sorry. I've I smile I smile tip-toed
tip-toed now. Corey Lewandowski's
managed one successful campaign.
>> Last then last last question. Is this
though, if the war goes if the war goes
badly, does any of this conversation
matter or is it just a poisoned chalice
and no one should want to be a
Republican nominee?
>> for. That's that's why Rubio's send us a
are so perverse. I think he is the most
untrustworthy politically in the
administration. And uh Because you think
he benefits from better Iran failure.
>> Okay. I'm skeptical that he thinks that
way, but I think we've
argued enough. Kurt Mills, thank you so
much for joining me. Thank you.
>> Woo.